JUDY WOODRUFF: And just one
more of the poll's findings.
When asked about the president's
financial dealings, 33 percent
of those polled say they
believe he has done
something illegal.
An additional 28 percent
feel he has done something
unethical, but not illegal.
And 31 percent believe he
has done nothing wrong.
Our correspondent John Yang
takes a closer look at ethical
concerns over the president's
business interests
and his unprecedented
early reelection run.
JOHN YANG: The day President
Trump took the oath of office,
he did something no chief
executive before him had ever
done on Inauguration Day, filed
the paperwork to be an official
candidate for reelection.
The move allows him to raise,
money more than $13 million in
the first three months of the
year, and hold rallies paid for
by his campaign, like this one
last week in Cedar Rapids, Iowa.
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States: We're not even
campaigning, and look at this
crowd.
MAN: The president
of the United States!
JOHN YANG: But he
is campaigning.
His first reelection
event was just 29 days
into his presidency.
All five of his campaign-paid
rallies have been in states he
won in last year's election:
Florida, Kentucky, Tennessee,
Pennsylvania, and Iowa.
Campaign events give him greater
flexibility, like being able
to sell Make America Great
Again merchandise.
MICHAEL STEEL, Republican
Strategist: This is
an opportunity for the
president to spread
his message directly to his most
active and energized supporters.
It's also an opportunity
to raise money, to
sell merchandise.
In some cases, like the
fund-raiser here in Washington,
it's an opportunity to patronize
his own business establishments.
DONALD TRUMP: And I am here to
tell you about our incredible
progress in making America
great again.
JOHN YANG: They have been
vintage Donald Trump.
DONALD TRUMP: We are
going to start taking
care of our country.
JOHN YANG: And they seem to
boost Mr. Trump's mood, getting
him out of Washington and in
front of enthusiastic crowds.
Tonight, here at the
Trump International Hotel,
just five blocks away
from the White House,
the first big fund-raiser of the
2020 campaign, it's benefiting
both the Trump campaign and
the Republican
National Committee.
The top ticket is
$35,000 a head.
The choice of venue highlights
the flow of campaign cash into
Trump Organization businesses,
a practice, which is legal, of
his first run that continues
in his bid for reelection.
The Trump campaign
declined a request to
comment for this story.
But deputy campaign manager
Michael Glassner told the
Associated Press that they chose
the Trump Hotel because it's a
premier and convenient location.
The president has walked away
from day-to-day management of
his hotels, golf courses and
other businesses, placing all
his assets into a trust, of
which he's the sole beneficiary.
Ethics lawyer Kenneth Gross
says he's never seen a candidate
pay so much money to his
own businesses.
KENNETH GROSS, Ethics
Law Expert: What we saw
during the campaign is
the campaign committee
paying Trump facilities,
whether it's the Trump Hotel
or Mar-a-Lago, or renting space
from the Trump Tower in New
York, which it did for the
campaign headquarters, buying
Trump steaks, Trump vodka,
Trump wine, Trump ice.
All this is money from the
campaign that eventually
goes to fatten the
wallets of Trump, Inc.
I don't know of anything illegal
about having a campaign do
a campaign visit at your own
owned facility, as long
as it's arms-length.
But I think, from an appearance
standpoint, it's not great.
JOHN YANG: The reelection
campaign spent more
than $6.3 million in
the first three months
of the year.
More than $450,000 of that
went to Trump businesses,
including rent at the
Trump Tower in New York
and Trump hotels in New York
and Las Vegas, catering from
Trump restaurants, and thousands
of dollars for
Trump bottled water.
Critics say holding campaign
events at Trump properties
also gives them free publicity
and added prestige.
A lawsuit from the Democratic
attorneys general of
Maryland and the District
of Columbia alleges
that, since Mr. Trump took
office, goods and services sold
by various Trump businesses
have sold at a premium.
It said room rates at
his D.C. hotel have gone
up hundreds of dollars.
KARL RACINE, D.C. Attorney
General: Never in the history
of this country have we had
a president with these
kinds of extensive business
entanglements or a president who
refused to adequately distance
themselves from their holdings.
JOHN YANG: White House Press
Secretary Sean Spicer called
the suit partisan politics.
Tonight, at the Trump Hotel
fund-raiser, the only politics
on anybody's mind is likely
to be the 2020 campaign, as
the man who rewrote the book on
running for president appears
to be trying to rewrite the
book on running for reelection.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
John Yang in Washington.